docs: rework mining page (#25035)
ethereum/go-ethereum: docs/_interface/mining.md

a CPU miner which runs Ethash within the Geth process. This might be useful for mining on some testnets. However, this is CPU mining is not viable on Ethereum Mainnet because CPU miners are easily out-competed by more efficient GPU miners. GPU mining is the recommended method for mining real ether on Ethereum Mainnet, but it is not part of the standard Geth installation. To mine using GPUs an additional piece of third-paty software is required. The recommended GPU mining software is [Ethminer](https://github.com/ethereum-mining/ethminer).

Regardless of the mining method, the blockchain must be fully synced before mining is started, otherwise the miner will build on an incorrect chain, invalidating the block rewards. 

## GPU Mining

### Installing Ethminer

The Ethminer software can be installed from a downloaded binary or built from source. Either way, the relevant downloads 
and installation instructions are available from the [Ethminer Github](https://github.com/ethereum-mining/ethminer/#build). Standalone executables are available for Linux, macOS and Windows.

### Using Ethminer with Geth

> An account to receive block rewards must first be created or imported into Geth. To create a new account:

Reviewer: We don't need to create the account with geth (or import it with geth). The address of the account is sufficient to start mining to it

```shell
geth account new
```

It is extremely important that the password is backed up safely and securely. The funds cannot be retrieved if the password is lost or forgotten. More detailed instructions on creating an importing accounts are available on the [Account Management](/docs/interface/managing-your-accounts) page.

> With an account in the Geth keystore, Geth can be started. The account address can be provided to `--mining.etherbase`. This instructs Geth todirect any block rewards to this address. Once started, Geth will sync the blockchain. If Geth has not connected to this network before, or if the data directory has been deleted, this can take several days. Also, enable HTTP traffic with the `--http` command.

Reviewer: Again we don't need to have the account in the keystore, address is enough

```shell
geth --http --miner.etherbase 0xC95767AC46EA2A9162F0734651d6cF17e5BfcF10
```

The progress of the blockchain syncing can be monitored by attaching a JavaScript console in another terminal. More detailed information about the console can be found on the [Javascript Console](/docs/interface/javascript-console) page. To attach and open a console:

```shell
geth attach http://127.0.0.1:8545
```

Then in the console, to check the sync progress:

```shell
eth.syncing
```

If the sync is progressing correctly the output will look similar to the following:

> ```terminal

Reviewer: Not anymore, we changed the format of this output: 
```
> eth.syncing
{
  currentBlock: 13891665,
  healedBytecodeBytes: 0,
  healedBytecodes: 0,
  healedTrienodeBytes: 0,
  healedTrienodes: 0,
  healingBytecode: 0,
  healingTrienodes: 0,
  highestBlock: 14640000,
  startingBlock: 13891665,
  syncedAccountBytes: 0,
  syncedAccounts: 0,
  syncedBytecodeBytes: 0,
  syncedBytecodes: 0,
  syncedStorage: 0,
  syncedStorageBytes: 0
}
```

Author: ok, thank you!

ethminer -v -U -P http://127.0.0.1:8545
```

Ethminer communicates with Geth on port 8545 (Geth's default RPC port) but this can be changed by providing a custom
port to the `http.port` command. The corresponding port must also be configured in Ethminer by providing 
`-P http://127.0.0.1:<port-number>`. This is necessary when multiple instances of Geth/Ethminer will coexist on the same machine.

If using OpenCL and the default for `ethminer` does not work, specifying the device using the `--opencl--device X` command is a common fix. `X` is an integer `1`, `2`, `3` etc. The Ethminer `-M` (benchmark) command should display something that looks like:

```terminal
Benchmarking on platform: { "platform": "NVIDIA CUDA", "device": "GeForce GTX 750 Ti", "version": "OpenCL 1.1 CUDA" }

Benchmarking on platform: { "platform": "Apple", "device": "Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-1620 v2 @ 3.70GHz", "version": "OpenCL 1.2 " }
```

Note that the Geth command `miner.hashrate` onyl works for CPU mining - it always reports zero for GPU mining. To check the GPU mining hashrate, check the logs `ethminer` displays to its terminal. More voerbose logs can be configured using `-v` and a value between 0-9.

> The Ethash algorithm is [memory-hard](https://crypto.stackexchange.com/questions/84002/memory-hard-vs-memory-bound-functions) and requires a large dataset to be loaded into memory. Each GPU requires 1-2 GB of RAM. The error message `Error GPU mining. GPU memory fragmentation?` indicates that there is insufficient memory available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ethash algorithm is [memory-hard](https://crypto.stackexchange.com/questions/84002/memory-hard-vs-memory-bound-functions) and requires a large dataset to be loaded into memory. Each GPU requires 4-5 GB of RAM. The error message `Error GPU mining. GPU memory fragmentation?` indicates that there is insufficient memory available.
```

Ethereum nodes is available on 
[ethereum.org](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pow/mining). 

## Mining and the Merge

[The Merge](https://ethereum.org/en/upgrades/merge) is an upcoming upgrade to Ethereum that
will swap the existing PoW for a [proof-of-stake (PoS)](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos) consensus mechanism. This marks the end of mining on Ethereum. Instead, nodes can [stake ether](https://ethereum.org/en/staking/solo/#get-started-on-the-staking-launchpad) directly and earn ether rewards by running [validators](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/#validators). The merge is expected to happen in the second half of 2022. Until then, Ethereum will continue to be secured by PoW miners. It is no longer recommended to purchase new hardware to participate in Ethereum mining because the chances of returning a profit before The Merge are low.

## CPU vs GPU

Participating in Ethereum's PoW mining requires running an algorithm called 
["Ethash"](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pow/mining-algorithms/ethash). Geth includes

> a CPU miner which runs Ethash within the Geth process. This might be useful for mining on some testnets. However, this is CPU mining is not viable on Ethereum Mainnet because CPU miners are easily out-competed by more efficient GPU miners. GPU mining is the recommended method for mining real ether on Ethereum Mainnet, but it is not part of the standard Geth installation. To mine using GPUs an additional piece of third-paty software is required. The recommended GPU mining software is [Ethminer](https://github.com/ethereum-mining/ethminer).

Author: ```suggestion
a CPU miner which runs Ethash within the Geth process. This might be useful for mining on some testnets. However, this is CPU mining is not viable on Ethereum Mainnet because CPU miners are easily out-competed by more efficient GPU miners. GPU mining is the recommended method for mining real ether on Ethereum Mainnet, but it is not part of the standard Geth installation. To mine using GPUs an additional piece of third-party software is required. The recommended GPU mining software is [Ethminer](https://github.com/ethereum-mining/ethminer).
```

> Regardless of the mining method, the blockchain must be fully synced before mining is started, otherwise the miner will build on an incorrect chain, invalidating the block rewards. 

Reviewer 2: perhaps we should call it an outdated side chain? the rewards are still valid but just not recognized by the network.

Author: ```suggestion
Regardless of the mining method, the blockchain must be fully synced before mining is started, otherwise the miner will build on an outdated side chain, meaning block rewards will not be recognized by the main network. 
```

be used to set the number parallel mining threads (defaulting to the total number of processor cores).

```shell
geth --mine --miner.threads=4
```

CPU mining can also be started and stopped at runtime using the [console](/docs/interface/javascript-console). The command `miner.start` takes an optional parameter for the number of miner threads.

```js
miner.start(8)
 true
miner.stop()
 true
```

Note that mining for real ether only makes sense if you are in sync with the network (since you mine on top of the consensus block). Therefore the Ethereum blockchain downloader/synchroniser will delay mining until syncing is complete, and after that mining automatically starts unless you cancel your intention with `miner.stop()`.

Like with GPU mining, an etherbase account must be set. This defaults to the primary account in the keystore but can be set to an alternative address using the `--miner.etherbase` command:

```shell
geth --miner.etherbase '0xC95767AC46EA2A9162F0734651d6cF17e5BfcF10' --mine
```

> If there is no account available the miner will not start. The Javascript console can also be used to reset the etherbase account at runtime:

Reviewer 2: If there is no account available, then an account will be created and configured as etherbase automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
If there is no account available an account wil be created and automatically configured to be the coinbase. The Javascript console can be used to reset the etherbase account at runtime:
```
